# LLM-Based Critics for Evaluating Repo-Level Code Changes

## Overview

Large Language Models (LLMs) are increasingly being used to automate software engineering tasks, including bug fixes and feature additions, via multi-step agentic workflows. However, evaluating these workflows remains a challenge, as existing metrics—such as build status and log analysis—are sparse and often fail to capture the quality of the generated changes.

This repository provides an LLM-based evaluation framework designed to offer well-structured and rigorous execution-free evaluation proxies for assessing repo-level code changes. Unlike traditional evaluation methods, our approach leverages LLM-based critics that assume access to a gold test patch, enabling both semantic and executability assessments of generated patches. This codebase is the implementation of paper ["Large Language Model Critics for Execution-Free Evaluation of Code Changes"](arxiv.org/abs/2501.16655)

## Key Contributions
* **Execution-Free Evaluation**: Our LLM-based critics predict the executability of all editing locations with an F1 score of 91.6%.
* **Accurate Build Status Prediction**: By aggregating these predictions, we can infer the build status correctly in 84.8% of instances from the SWE-bench benchmark.
* **Performance Gains**: Our execution-focused LLM critic outperforms other reference-free and reference-aware critics by 38.9% to 72.5%, on an SWE-Bench dataset.
* **Patch Comparison**: The framework enables systematic comparisons of patches generated by different LLM-based agentic workflows.
* **Open-Source Library**: We provide an extensible implementation that can be applied to other agentic workflows and benchmarks.

## Getting Started
This section describes the prerequisites, and contains instructions to get the project up and running.

### Setup 

#### A. Project Environment
If ``conda`` is already installed, update to the latest version with ``conda update conda``, and skip steps 1 - 3:
  1. Download the latest, appropriate version of [conda](https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/) for your machine (tested with ``conda 23.11.0``).
  2. Install  it by running the `conda_install.sh` file, with the command:
     ```bash
     $ bash conda_install.sh
     ```
  3. Add `conda` to bash profile:
     ```bash
     $ source ~/.bashrc
     ```
  4. Navigate to ``LLMAgentEvaluation`` (top-level directory) and create a conda virtual environment with the included `environment.yml` file using the following command:
     
     ```bash
     $ conda env create -f environment.yml
     ```

     To test successful installation, make sure ``llmeval`` appears in the list of conda environments returned with ``conda env list``.
  5. Activate the virtual environment with the following command:
     
     ```bash
     $ conda activate llmeval
     ```
  6. Install ``llm_agent_evaluation``:
     
     ```bash
     $ pip install .
     ```       

#### B. Prerequisites
Create an `.env` file in the top-level directory containing `configure.py`, with the following key-value pairs:
     
     ```bash
      AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=
      AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=
      AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=
     ```

#### C. Data Resources 

1. Setting up BugsInPy/SWE-Bench datasets: `configure.py` helps set up both BugsInPy and SWE-Bench` (both 'Lite' and 'test' variants) benchmark datasets.
    * BugsInPy: `$ python configure.py --benchmark BugsInPy`
    * SWE-Bench: `$ python configure.py --benchmark swe-bench --type {Lite|test}`

   This creates `base` and `gold` repository snapshots in `resources/<benchmark>/projects/<project-name>/instances/<instance-id>/snapshots/`.

2. Perturbation-based datasets: One way to get failure patches is to perturb on the gold patches by
    * Removing a random hunk from the gold patch
    * (TODO) Perturbing on the gold patch with an LLM

   To do so, first, navigate to `workflows` and run `perturbation.py` as per the sample commands. This creates `perturb-removal` or `perturb-llm` repository snapshot (after applying the perturbed patch) in `resources/<benchmark>/projects/<project-name>/instances/<instance-id>/snapshots/`, and creates the corresponding `<benchmark>.patches.perturb-{removal|llm}.{none|function}-context.pkl` files in `resources/cache`.

3. Agentic workflows:
    * **[Disclaimer]** This is currently set up to only work with SWE-Bench.
    * To set up a specific agent (allowed, only if evaluated on both `lite` and `test` SWE-Bench variants, https://github.com/swe-bench/experiments/tree/main/evaluation/), navigate to `workflows` and run `agentic_patches.py` as per the sample commands. This creates a repository snapshot for the agent in `resources/<benchmark>/projects/<project-name>/instances/<instance-id>/snapshots/` and caches all individual test case to status (i.e., PASSED, FAILED, or ERROR) maps at `resources/cache/<benchmark>.<agent-name>.test-status.json`.

### Directory Structure

<Add directory structure here>

## Going Ahead

1. Extend `workflows/agentic_patches.py` to BugsInPy.
2. Add utilities to create patches with dependency-context.
3. Build partial ordering based on ordering of change-specific functions in the call graph for the repository.
4. Adding more traditional or LLM-based scorers into `scorers` module.

For 2--3, call graph processing utilities can be added to `external/call_graph` and caller/callee relations for a specific method in any repository can be extracted. This can be structured along the lines of [r2e](https://github.com/r2e-project/r2e/tree/main/r2e/pat/callgraph).

If you use this work, please cite:

```scss
@misc{yadavally2025largelanguagemodelcritics,
      title={Large Language Model Critics for Execution-Free Evaluation of Code Changes}, 
      author={Aashish Yadavally and Hoan Nguyen and Laurent Callot and Gauthier Guinet},
      year={2025},
      eprint={2501.16655},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CL},
      url={https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.16655}, 
}
```
